That explanation of where this new technology sits within history feels right: While prognosticators love to talk about crypto and blockchain as a bubble, it is likely just very early days. And while 1999 marked what seemed like a high point for the internet before a precipitous fall, it proved to only be the first stage of the internet¡¯s ascendance. Yes, there were implosions like Pets.com, but there was also Amazon.
And what was arguably considered wild overspending in the late 1990s on internet infrastructure and an assortment of experimental companies, ultimately set the foundation for the modern era we live in today.
Think about blockchain like this: There will be huge failures and misspent money ? 
New models of computing have tended to emerge every 10 to 15 years, mainframes in the 60s, PCs in the late 70s, the internet in the early 90s, and smartphones in the late 2000s, Mr. Andreessen said. And now blockchain.
The easiest and most basic way to think about the underlying technology is to think about a technology that keeps a master list of everyone who has ever interacted with it. It¡¯s a bit of an oversimplification, but if you¡¯ve ever used Google Docs and allowed others to share the document so they can make changes, the programs keep a list of all the changes that are made to the document and by whom. Blockchain does that but in an even more secure way so that every person who ever touches the document is trusted and everyone gets a copy of all the changes made so there is never a question about what happened along the way. There aren¡¯t multiple copies of a document and different versions ? there is only one trusted document and you can keep track of everything that¡¯s ever happened to it.
Blockchain technology has the potential to do amazing things. It can provide an immutable, digital audit trail of transactions, and can be used to cheaply verify the integrity of data. It can help businesses and individuals agree, on a global scale, about the true state of affairs within a market without relying on a costly intermediary.
This is achieved through a clever combination of economic incentives and cryptography, and ensures that at any point in time, digital records reflect the true ¡°consensus¡± among the key stakeholders involved. When it comes to sharing digital records and assets, it can therefore replace the need for trust between players, or the need for a central authority to verify and maintain the records of transactions.
However, when assessing blockchain business models, it is useful to understand what blockchain can¡¯t do.
Think about the problem of tracking babies within a hospital ward and beyond. This is a very serious problem. The consequences of a baby being mistaken for another baby can be horrendous. Therefore, storing records that contain a baby¡¯s current location in a way that makes these data points immutable and verifiable seems like a great use of blockchain technology.
But there is a big problem with using blockchain to solve such a problem. The digital records may be immutable and verifiable, but how does someone know which digital record is attached to which baby? To link an entry on the blockchain to an actual, real-life baby, we need to give the baby a physical identifier through a physical tag, or in a more futuristic world, a small chip or digital genome record that links the baby to its digital record. And this is where blockchain falls down. It can¡¯t help with this process, and can¡¯t verify that perhaps the most important step of verification is happening correctly.
At the interface between the offline world and its digital representation, the usefulness of the technology still critically depends on trusted intermediaries to effectively bridge the ¡°last mile¡± between a digital record and a physical individual, business, device, or event. In our example, the technology would have to rely on humans to correctly and honestly implement the match between baby and digital record. And if humans get that wrong or manipulate the data when it is entered, in a system where records are believed ex-post as having integrity, this can have serious negative consequences.
Blockchain networks tend to support principles, like open access and permissionless use, that should be familiar to proponents of the early internet. To protect this vision from political pressure and regulatory interference, blockchain networks rely on a decentralized infrastructure that can¡¯t be controlled by any one person or group. Unlike political regulation, blockchain governance is not emergent from the community. Rather, it is ex ante, encoded in the protocols and processes as an integral part of the original network architecture. To be a part of a community supporting a blockchain is to accept the rules of the network as they were originally established.
While Edward Lloyd is largely credited with commercializing the insurance industry, with the creation of his namesake firm, Lloyd¡¯s, over 330 years ago, the original concept of spreading risk (or ¡°mutualizing¡±) goes back even further. Hundreds of years before Lloyd¡¯s was formed, Chinese merchants would spread their valuable cargo across multiple vessels, with each one carrying an equal share of another merchant¡¯s goods. In this manner, no single loss would be catastrophic. This spread of risk, of course, also prevented a merchant from absconding with his ship¡¯s goods and never reuniting with the other traders; he¡¯d have too much to lose. In effect, they all had skin in the game, which remains one of the most elusive elements of modern finance. Both then and in 1686, when Lloyd¡¯s was born in a London coffee house, the global insurance industry was a business of utmost good faith, as it remains today.
In recent years, a major pain point for brands and advertisers has been the lack of transparency and accountability in being able to ascertain how their ad dollars have been spent. Digital advertising is complex, because ensuring that the media that was purchased was actually delivered as it was intended, is non-trival today. Ad fraud is pervasive, and costs marketers and publishers a significant amount of money. Forrester reports that as much as 56% of all display ad dollars were lost to fraudulent inventory in 2016. And the cost of ad fraud globally is expected to increase to $50 billion over the next decade.  A recent study into the state of programmatic advertising revealed that 79% of advertisers surveyed expressed worries about transparency, with over a third regarding the lack of visibility on third parties as one of their key concerns. It¡¯s why we are increasingly hearing that major brands like P&G have cut their ad budgets, because their media agencies failed to give them the transparency they needed.
Blockchain can make data-driven marketing more transparent by validating and analyzing every consumer¡¯s journey through verified ad delivery, confirming that a real person saw the ad as per the specifics of a media contract. Marketers will able to control how their assets are delivered by monitoring exactly where their ads are being placed, alleviating ad fraud from automated bots by ensuring that real followers and consumers are engaging with their ads, and ensuring proper ad engagement tracking that will lead to more precise digital attribution.
As a musician, I want to encourage other artists to collaborate with my music. But recently, a visual artist had all of his Vimeo videos taken down for using just 30 seconds of one of my songs. The label that exclusively licenses one of my songs likely had a bot looking for copyright infringement that automatically took it down. I hear the artist now has them back online after a few weeks of hair loss and negotiations. I¡¯d personally like to avoid these types of situations in the future, which means providing an easy way for others to license and collaborate with my music. A blockchain-empowered rights and payments layer could provide the means to do so.
It¡¯s a strange world we live in when large companies such as Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion are able to store huge quantities of our personal data and profit from it in a way that doesn¡¯t always benefit us. And when those same companies lose our personal data and make us susceptible to identity theft, there¡¯s virtually nothing we can do about it. Equifax lost the data of more than 140 million people, and recompense is not forthcoming. Meanwhile, the CEO may be stepping down with a pension worth $18 million. Clearly, the system is broken, and it¡¯s time to stop and ask ourselves why we continue to rely on a system that doesn¡¯t stand up to the challenges we face in a digital society.
Credit-referencing agencies benefit immensely from our data, but there are many other data privateers ? from online shopping sites to retailers to media firms ? that are doing the same, including our own governments. U.S. Social Security numbers, or UK National Insurance numbers, were originally created to keep track of the earnings history of workers for entitlement and benefit programs. Both have since morphed into critical numbers assigned at birth that can be used by government agencies not just to collect taxes, but to identify individuals. They are also now used by private industry to track our financial and commercial histories.
Many countries have such a national identity system. With the governments of China and India both providing their citizens a national identity (Hukou in China and Aadhaar in India), it¡¯s safe to say that well over a third of the world uses government-issued identitifiers. Among the various ways to prove identity, the U.S. stands out for its complexity, relying on a mix of varying state mechanisms ? for example the ubiquitous use of state driving licenses, combined with Social Security numbers. A decade ago, the UK attempted to establish a national identity system, which was ultimately scrapped for many reasons, which included political overreaching, lack of security, and cost overruns. None of these nation¡¯s systems have proven to be a practical, reliable way to protect and prove our identities.
Still, numerous smaller countries, such as Singapore, are exploring national identity systems that span government and the private sector. One of the more successful stories of governments instituting an identity system is Estonia, with its ID-kaarts. Reacting to cyber-attacks against the nation, the Estonian government decided that it needed to become more digital, and even more secure. They decided to use a distributed ledger to build their system, rather than a traditional central database. Distributed ledgers are used in situations where multiple parties need to share authoritative information with each other without a central third party, such as for data-logging clinical assessments or storing data from commercial deals. These are multi-organization databases with a super audit trail. As a result, the Estonian system provides its citizens with an all-digital government experience, significantly reduced bureaucracy, and significantly high citizen satisfaction with their government dealings.
While there¡¯s a hot debate about how to define a blockchain, most projects using the term try to create a single database that is shared and maintained by a group of people or institutions.
The vast majority of blockchains involve new virtual currencies like Bitcoin. But corporations and governments around the world have also become interested in ways to use the technology to reliably store vast amounts of data.
Many new cryptocurrencies are like Bitcoin and record all transactions on public blockchains that anyone with a computer can help to update, without requiring permission from anyone.
A handful of large cryptocurrencies are recorded on ledgers that anyone can access, but that still rely to some degree on a central institution or company. The ledgers for these coins were inspired by blockchains but rely on new data structures.
A number of companies have built their own private blockchains for corporate and government use from the ground up, without using an existing blockchain as a starting point. These private blockchains are designed to be shared among groups of computers, but are not open to the public.
If some financial institutions had used blockchains before the last recession, we may not have had one. After all, banks sometimes didn¡¯t know which company¡¯s books held bad mortgages, and a blockchain is essentially a single time-stamped ledger transparent to all its users.
Since that time, companies in a wide variety of industries, such as health care, government, food, supply chain management and trade finance, have begun exploring blockchain technology. The problems they¡¯re trying to solve mostly come down to inefficiency and fraud.
Gartner, a research firm, projects the global business benefits of blockchain technology will total $5 billion in 2018 and more than quadruple to $21 billion by 2021.
If you buy a house in Chicago and want to register the deed, the Cook County Recorder of Deeds will accept two kinds of submissions: paper records and scanned images of paper records. No matter which option you choose, the clerks will manually type the information into the county database.
Roughly once a week, someone ? for example, an addict claiming a home that actually belongs to a grandparent with dementia ? will mail in a fake document, and ¡°if they formatted it correctly, we have to record it,¡± said John Mirkovic, the deputy recorder. ¡°It¡¯s one of the main reasons we¡¯re so interested in blockchain.¡±
Blockchain is a data structure popularized by the digital currency Bitcoin. It¡¯s also one of the biggest buzzwords in Silicon Valley, finance and government, where proponents say it can save money and increase trust in public institutions.
The term blockchain was first used to describe the public record that exists for every transaction on the Bitcoin network, copies of which are kept by thousands of entities around the world. Now it¡¯s used to describe a wide range of systems that incorporate cryptography or decentralized data storage.
In theory, blockchain can save money and reduce errors by replacing workers, while adding accountability by generating a public record of all activity.
