In a statement, the Travel and Transport Task Force called for international cooperation of governments and the transport sector in following the recommendations of the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee on Ebola, convened by the UN World Health Organization (WHO).
Meanwhile, WHO released the results of an investigation that have clarified the early exposure history of Mali¡¯s first Ebola case a 2-year-old girl from Guinea who died of the disease after crossing into neighbouring Mali.
¡°The Guinea history reveals many difficult challenges faced by ministries of health, local health officials, WHO and other partners in the Ebola response,¡± said the agency.
For example, WHO noted that its data strongly suggest that Ebola care in private health facilities carries a higher risk of infection. In Kenema, Sierra Leone, for example, 87 per cent of new infections among health care workers have been acquired in privately-run non-Ebola clinics.
The report also noted a pattern of returning home to a native village to die and that ¡°such frequent travels by symptomatic Ebola patients, often via public transportation and over long distances, unquestionably create multiple opportunities for high-risk exposures ? en route and also when the patient reaches his home and is greeted by family and friends.¡±
The WHO report concluded that with persistent and thorough contact tracing, isolation and monitoring in place, ¡°confidence is growing that no further spread within Mali followed exposure¡± to the child from Guinea.
In its statement, thee Travel and Transport Force ? set up in August 2014 to support global efforts to contain the spread of Ebola and provide a coordinated international response for the travel, trade and tourism sector ? said it also stood firmly with WHO against general bans on travel and trade, as well as restrictions that include general quarantine of travellers from Ebola-affected countries.
According to the UN World Health Organization (WHO) there had been 66 cases of Ebola reported in the DRC, including the health-care workers. In total, 49 deaths have been reported before authorities in that country declared the end of the outbreak, which is unrelated to the Ebola outbreak that originated in West Africa.
The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said air support from the UN team in the DRC and its partners enabled the travel of essential health and sanitation experts and delivery of tonnes of medical, nutrition and other critical aid supplies and equipment, in support of the response.
Meanwhile, the UN Mission for Ebola Emergency Response (UNMEER) mourned the passing of Marcel Rudasingwa, UNMEER¡¯s Emergency Crisis Manager in Guinea. A Rwandan national, Mr. Rudasingwa passed away suddenly from natural causes.
The Head of the UN Mission, Anthony Banbury, said that in just a short space of time, Mr. Rudasingwa played a pivotal role in the Organization's and the international community's response to the Ebola crisis in Guinea.
Speaking on behalf of the Secretary-General at the Summit of Heads of State of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of our Americas (ALBA) on Ebola,Dr. David Nabarro, the Secretary-General¡¯s Special Envoy on Ebola, said cooperation and solidarity are essential, and Cuba and Venezuela, with their contributions, have already demonstrated this.
¡°I urge countries in the region and around the world to follow the lead of Cuba and Venezuela, who have set a commendable example with their rapid response in support of efforts to contain Ebola,¡± he said.
Saying that Cuba¡¯s solidarity with other developing countries is well established, Dr. Nabarro commended the Government of the Caribbean island for dispatching a team of 165 medical aid workers to West Africa in early October.
¡°Cuba¡¯s proud tradition of training doctors from developing countries has also helped improve medical care around the world,¡± Dr. Nabarro said.
Cuba plans to send more medical workers soon. Over the years, Cuba has sent thousands of medical workers abroad, including to 39 African countries.
Venezuela has also joined efforts to combat Ebola by contributing $5 million to the UN Ebola Response Multi-Partner Trust Fund, which supports the needs and requirements of UN agencies, funds and partners working to eliminate Ebola in West Africa.
¡°[Ebola] has wide and profound economic, humanitarian, political and security dimensions. We must act decisively to relieve the burden on the people and Governments of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone and stop the spread of Ebola to other countries,¡± said Dr. Nabarro.
¡°By convening this timely summit, ALBA member States can substantially assist in attaining these objectives. I wish you a productive meeting,¡± he added.
Joining the forum via video, Dr. Margaret Chan, the Head of the World Health Organization (WHO), told participants that ¡°you are absolutely doing the right thing. You want to step up your level of preparedness.¡±
¡°Last month, the Ebola virus moved to your region¡¦to the United States¡¦any country with an international airport is theoretically at risk of an imported cased of Ebola,¡± she said.
She thanked Cuba for contributing the much-needed nurses and doctors to affected countries. The staff in their ¡°sparkling white lab jackets brings a most welcomed face of hope to what is otherwise a horrific outbreak,¡± Dr. Chan added.
The virus is deadly. The disease is dreadful. People are afraid. At the same time, a well-prepared country can defeat Ebola.
Countries in the Bolivarian alliance need to train their staff, use drills to test performance, get protocols written quickly, get your public and media behind you, engage the community early to fight fear with facts. On its own, protective gear is not fool proof, she said.
Also today, WHO officially declared Nigeria free of Ebola virus transmission, after 42 days without a single case. In a statement, the WHO called it a spectacular success story that shows that Ebola can be contained.
Such a story can help the many other developing countries that are deeply worried by the prospect of an imported Ebola case and eager to improve their preparedness plans. This announcement comes only a few days after Senegal was also declared to be Ebola-free.
Strong public awareness campaigns, teamed with early engagement of traditional, religious and community leaders, has played a key role in successful containment of this outbreak.
On the funding front, the Trust Fund set up by the Secretary-General for the EbolaResponse, now has $8.8 million in deposits and $5 million in commitments.
In total, $43.5 million has been pledged and the Secretary-General continues to urge countries to turn these pledges into action as soon as possible. All numbers are available on the Ebola Multi-Partner Trust Fund¡¯s website.
The flight, carrying 58 metric tons of supplies including water tanks, washing units and generators, is one in a series of dispatches this week containing protective gear, emergency health kits, relief items and other equipment for use throughout the affected region.
¡°The world is mobilizing and we need to reach the smallest villages in the most remote locations. Indications are that things will only get worse before they improve. How much worse depends on us all,¡± said Denise Brown, WFP¡¯s Regional Director for West Africa.
In addition to supply flights, the WFP is delivering 7,000 metric tons of rice by ship scheduled to reach Sierra Leone by the end of the week, before heading to Liberia¡¯s capital of Monrovia. There, WFP is also runnng a logistics hub with plans to set up 12 more in remote areas in affected countries.
An additional 100 WFP staff ? engineers, operations support officers and telecommunications specialists ? have been mobilized across the region to support more than 360 WFP colleagues already on the ground.
